README.md, before:

# GeoNetwork Open-source

# Build Health

[![Build Status](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/actions/workflows/linux.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/actions/workflows/linux.yml?query=branch%3Amain)

# Features

* Immediate search access to local and distributed geospatial catalogues
* Uploading and downloading of data, graphics, documents, pdf files and any other content type
* An interactive Web Map Viewer to combine Web Map Services from distributed servers around the world
* Online editing of metadata with a powerful template system
* Scheduled harvesting and synchronization of metadata between distributed catalogs
* Support for OGC-CSW 2.0.2 ISO Profile, OAI-PMH, SRU protocols
* Fine-grained access control with group and user management
* Multi-lingual user interface

# Documentation

User documentation is managed in the [geonetwork/doc](https://github.com/geonetwork/doc) repository covering all releases of GeoNetwork.

The `docs` folder includes [geonetwork/doc](https://github.com/geonetwork/doc) as a git submodule. This documentation is compiled into html pages during a release for publishing on the [geonetwork-opensource.org](http://geonetwork-opensource.org) website.

Developer documentation located in README.md files in the code-base:

* General documentation for the project as a whole is in this README.md
* [Software Development Documentation](/software_development/README.md) provides instructions for setting up a development environment, building Geonetwork, compiling user documentation, and making a releases
* Module specific documentation can be found in each module (assuming there is module specific documentation required)


# Metadata Vlaanderen

It is perhaps wise to keep track of some Metadata Vlaanderen-specific notes or comments. This section could serve as an appendix to the curernt Geonetwork documentation.

## Setup
- Run `git submodule update --init --recursive` before building.
- Run `mvn clean package -DskipTests -Pwar` for a clean package that can be run on Jetty.
- Run `docker-compose build geonetwork` to build the docker image for geonetwork.
- Run `docker-compose up` to bring a complete dev stack up, based on the above image.
  - use `docker-compose --profile dev up` to exclude geonetwork, but run all other services
  - use `docker-compose --profile full up` to run the full stack, including the geonetwork image

Commit message:

Modified profile, added overrides and example with local bind.

README.md, after:

# GeoNetwork Open-source

# Build Health

[![Build Status](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/actions/workflows/linux.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/geonetwork/core-geonetwork/actions/workflows/linux.yml?query=branch%3Amain)

# Features

* Immediate search access to local and distributed geospatial catalogues
* Uploading and downloading of data, graphics, documents, pdf files and any other content type
* An interactive Web Map Viewer to combine Web Map Services from distributed servers around the world
* Online editing of metadata with a powerful template system
* Scheduled harvesting and synchronization of metadata between distributed catalogs
* Support for OGC-CSW 2.0.2 ISO Profile, OAI-PMH, SRU protocols
* Fine-grained access control with group and user management
* Multi-lingual user interface

# Documentation

User documentation is managed in the [geonetwork/doc](https://github.com/geonetwork/doc) repository covering all releases of GeoNetwork.

The `docs` folder includes [geonetwork/doc](https://github.com/geonetwork/doc) as a git submodule. This documentation is compiled into html pages during a release for publishing on the [geonetwork-opensource.org](http://geonetwork-opensource.org) website.

Developer documentation located in README.md files in the code-base:

* General documentation for the project as a whole is in this README.md
* [Software Development Documentation](/software_development/README.md) provides instructions for setting up a development environment, building Geonetwork, compiling user documentation, and making a releases
* Module specific documentation can be found in each module (assuming there is module specific documentation required)


# Metadata Vlaanderen

It is perhaps wise to keep track of some Metadata Vlaanderen-specific notes or comments. This section could serve as an appendix to the curernt Geonetwork documentation.

## Setup
- Run `git submodule update --init --recursive` before building.
- Run `mvn clean package -DskipTests -Pwar` for a clean package that can be run on Jetty.
- Run `docker-compose build geonetwork` to build the docker image for geonetwork.
- Run `docker-compose` to bring a complete dev stack up, based on the above image.
  - use `docker-compose up` to exclude geonetwork, but run all other services
  - use `docker-compose --profile full up` to run the full stack, including the geonetwork image
- Override settings (see, e.g., `docker-compose.dev.example.yaml`)
  - make a copy and remove `.example` (this file is ignored in `.gitignore`) 
  - use `docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.dev.yml` to override settings to your liking
