liquibase/README.md, before:

# Liquibase

A database versioning tool. It applies a set of changes to a given database and keeps track which changesets have been applied.

- Make it easy to keep environments in sync
- Include in a pipeline, automated deployments
- Provide a clean dev environment easily


# Setup

## Geonetwork's Hibernate
Hibernate should be completely disabled once Liquibase is used for the migrations. Automated population of the database will be replaced by relevant scripts handled by Liquibase. This way, changes can be controlled in-order, in a versioned fashion.

To disable hibernate, check the file `config-spring-geonetwork.xml`. Modify the following snippet:
```xml
<!-- options: none, validate, update, create, create-drop, create-only -->
<entry key="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="none"/>
```

To disable the automatic migrations, start Geonetwork with the following environment variable:
```bash
GEONETWORK_DB_MIGRATION_ONSTARTUP=false
```

## Properties file
Modify the `liquibase.properties` file to your liking. This defines:
- the database to be modified
- the context to consider
- ..

## Config
General config of liquibase is done using `pom.xml`. Here, the driver is added as a dependency and the `liquibase.properties` file is selected for sourcing the arguments for liquibase.


# Contexts

Multiple contexts are available when running liquibase. These are defined, e.g., in the properties file. Possible values are:
- `loc` for local development
- `dev`
- `bet`
- `prd`

Changesets that are context-aware use this, allowing specific parts to be executed on a limited set of environments.


# Initial run

Make sure you have a clean database:

```sql
drop schema if exists public;
drop schema if exists liquibase;
create schema public;
create schema liquibase;
```

Afterwards, run `mvn liquibase:update` in the folder `liquibase/`. This makes use of the `liquibase.properties` file!

This procedure is also contained in the script `reset-db.sh` for convenience, when running the docker compose version. Make sure you are using the right properties file. 


# Useful commands 

## Rollback
Undo one update. Handy when testing things in development. Can only be applied to changesets that have an 'undo' operation specified.
```bash
mvn liquibase:rollback "-Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1"
```

## Reset checksums
This will clear the checksums in the database. Useful when you changed a changeset and are sure that the database won't be messed up.
Probably not a good idea in beta or dev.
```bash
mvn liquibase:clearCheckSums
```


# Sync data from Azure

Before moving completely to postgres we need to be able to sync data from the Azure SQL databases into our Postgres database.

Work in progress: figure out a process that works well.

1. Create a postgresql database with an empty `public` schema.
2. In `liquibase/`, run `mvn liquibase:update` to generate the current dev database.
3. Truncate all relevant tables (see script below), which impacts the following:
    - "address" 
    - "email"
    - "guf_rating"
    - "guf_rating"
    - "guf_userfeedback_keyword"
    - "guf_userfeedbacks"
    - "guf_userfeedbacks_guf_rating"
    - "metadata"
    - "metadatacateg"
    - "metadatadraft"
    - "metadatafileuploads"
    - "metadatafiledownloads"
    - "users"
    - "useraddress"
    - "usergroups"
    - "usersavedselections"
    - "usersearch"
    - "usersearch_group"
    - "usersearchdes"
5. Copy the content of an Azure SQL Geonetwork database.
   - Use dBeaver, connect to both databases (source: AzureSQL, target: Postgres).  
   - Select all as source tables the truncated tables (see above)
     - Click `export data`
     - Export target: `Database table(s)`
     - Skip `create` actions. 

## Truncate relevant tables

```sql
truncate metadata cascade;
truncate users cascade;
truncate address cascade;
truncate metadatafileuploads cascade;
truncate metadatafiledownloads cascade;
```

## Update sequence values
Also see file `after-startup.sql`.
Note that in Postgres, there is no direct link between the primary key and the sequence. It's handled by Hibernate (?).

```sql
SELECT setval('address_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM address));
SELECT setval('csw_server_capabilities_info_id_seq', (SELECT max(idfield) FROM cswservercapabilitiesinfo));
SELECT setval('files_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM files));
SELECT setval('group_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM groups));
SELECT setval('gufkey_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_keywords));
SELECT setval('gufrat_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_rating));
SELECT setval('harvest_history_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM harvesthistory));
SELECT setval('harvester_setting_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM harvestersettings));
SELECT setval('inspire_atom_feed_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM inspireatomfeed));
SELECT setval('iso_language_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM isolanguages));
SELECT setval('link_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM links));
SELECT setval('linkstatus_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM linkstatus));
SELECT setval('mapserver_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM mapservers));
SELECT setval('metadata_category_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM categories));
SELECT setval('metadata_filedownload_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadatafiledownloads));
SELECT setval('metadata_fileupload_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadatafileuploads));
SELECT setval('metadata_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadata));
SELECT setval('metadata_identifier_template_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadataidentifiertemplate));
SELECT setval('operation_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM operations));
SELECT setval('rating_criteria_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_ratingcriteria));
SELECT setval('schematron_criteria_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM schematroncriteria));
SELECT setval('schematron_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM schematron));
SELECT setval('selection_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM selections));
SELECT setval('status_value_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM statusvalues));
SELECT setval('user_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM users));
SELECT setval('user_search_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM usersearch));
```

Commit message:

Cleaned up liquibase setup
- now setting config in maven profiles
- updated readme
- fixed small bug in 00006

liquibase/README.md, after:

# Liquibase

A database versioning tool. It applies a set of changes to a given database and keeps track which changesets have been applied.

- Make it easy to keep environments in sync
- Include in a pipeline, automated deployments
- Provide a clean dev environment easily


# Setup

## Geonetwork's Hibernate
Hibernate should be completely disabled once Liquibase is used for the migrations. Automated population of the database will be replaced by relevant scripts handled by Liquibase. This way, changes can be controlled in-order, in a versioned fashion.

To disable hibernate, check the file `config-spring-geonetwork.xml`. Modify the following snippet:
```xml
<!-- options: none, validate, update, create, create-drop, create-only -->
<entry key="hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto" value="none"/>
```

To disable the automatic migrations, start Geonetwork with the following environment variable:
```bash
GEONETWORK_DB_MIGRATION_ONSTARTUP=false
```

## Config
General config of liquibase is done using `pom.xml`. Here, the driver is added as a dependency. Necessary liquibase properties
are defined in de pom, and also available as profiles.


# Contexts

Multiple contexts are available when running liquibase. These are defined, e.g., in the properties file. Possible values are:
- `loc` for local development
- `dev`
- `bet`
- `prd`

Changesets that are context-aware use this, allowing specific parts to be executed on a limited set of environments.

Select a context during execution by specifying it as a maven profile or by passing the relevant properties:

```bash
# Example for dev (maven profile / liquibase context)
mvn liquibase:update -P dev
```


# Initial run

Make sure you have a clean database:

```sql
drop schema if exists public;
drop schema if exists liquibase;
create schema public;
create schema liquibase;
```

Afterwards, run `mvn liquibase:update` in the folder `liquibase/`. Pass `-P context` to select the desired context, or override
properties by adding `-Dliquibase.attribute=value`. For available values, see `mvn liquibase:help -Ddetail=true`.

This procedure is also contained in the script `reset-db.sh` for convenience, when running the docker compose version. Make sure you are using the right properties file. 


# Useful commands 

## Rollback
Undo one update. Handy when testing things in development. Can only be applied to changesets that have an 'undo' operation specified.
```bash
mvn liquibase:rollback "-Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1"
```

## Reset checksums
This will clear the checksums in the database. Useful when you changed a changeset and are sure that the database won't be messed up.
Probably not a good idea in beta or dev.
```bash
mvn liquibase:clearCheckSums
```


# Sync data from Azure

Before moving completely to postgres we need to be able to sync data from the Azure SQL databases into our Postgres database.

Work in progress: figure out a process that works well.

1. Create a postgresql database with an empty `public` schema.
2. In `liquibase/`, run `mvn liquibase:update` to generate the current dev database.
3. Truncate all relevant tables (see script below), which impacts the following:
    - "address" 
    - "email"
    - "guf_rating"
    - "guf_rating"
    - "guf_userfeedback_keyword"
    - "guf_userfeedbacks"
    - "guf_userfeedbacks_guf_rating"
    - "metadata"
    - "metadatacateg"
    - "metadatadraft"
    - "metadatafileuploads"
    - "metadatafiledownloads"
    - "users"
    - "useraddress"
    - "usergroups"
    - "usersavedselections"
    - "usersearch"
    - "usersearch_group"
    - "usersearchdes"
5. Copy the content of an Azure SQL Geonetwork database.
   - Use dBeaver, connect to both databases (source: AzureSQL, target: Postgres).  
   - Select all as source tables the truncated tables (see above)
     - Click `export data`
     - Export target: `Database table(s)`
     - Skip `create` actions. 

## Truncate relevant tables

```sql
truncate metadata cascade;
truncate users cascade;
truncate address cascade;
truncate metadatafileuploads cascade;
truncate metadatafiledownloads cascade;
```

## Update sequence values
Also see file `after-startup.sql`.
Note that in Postgres, there is no direct link between the primary key and the sequence. It's handled by Hibernate (?).

```sql
SELECT setval('address_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM address));
SELECT setval('csw_server_capabilities_info_id_seq', (SELECT max(idfield) FROM cswservercapabilitiesinfo));
SELECT setval('files_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM files));
SELECT setval('group_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM groups));
SELECT setval('gufkey_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_keywords));
SELECT setval('gufrat_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_rating));
SELECT setval('harvest_history_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM harvesthistory));
SELECT setval('harvester_setting_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM harvestersettings));
SELECT setval('inspire_atom_feed_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM inspireatomfeed));
SELECT setval('iso_language_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM isolanguages));
SELECT setval('link_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM links));
SELECT setval('linkstatus_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM linkstatus));
SELECT setval('mapserver_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM mapservers));
SELECT setval('metadata_category_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM categories));
SELECT setval('metadata_filedownload_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadatafiledownloads));
SELECT setval('metadata_fileupload_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadatafileuploads));
SELECT setval('metadata_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadata));
SELECT setval('metadata_identifier_template_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM metadataidentifiertemplate));
SELECT setval('operation_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM operations));
SELECT setval('rating_criteria_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM guf_ratingcriteria));
SELECT setval('schematron_criteria_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM schematroncriteria));
SELECT setval('schematron_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM schematron));
SELECT setval('selection_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM selections));
SELECT setval('status_value_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM statusvalues));
SELECT setval('user_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM users));
SELECT setval('user_search_id_seq', (SELECT max(id) + 1 FROM usersearch));
```
